# DepMap Data Downloads
Peter van Galen, 240718
Download relevant data from DepMap, all from 24Q2
These data are not on Github because I DataDownloads/24Q2 is in .gitignore


### Models
Navigate to https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=currentRelease
Tab "Model, Conditions, and Mapping"
Download Model.csv

_Description_
Metadata describing all cancer models/cell lines which are referenced by a dataset contained within the DepMap portal.
* ModelID: Unique identifier for the model
* PatientID: Unique identifier for models derived from the same tissue sample
* CellLineName: Commonly used cell line name
* StrippedCellLineName: Commonly used cell line name without characters or spaces
* DepmapModelType: Abbreviated ID for model type. For cancer models, this field is from Oncotree, information for other disease types are generated by DepMap
* OncotreeLineage: Lineage of model. For cancer models, this field is from Oncotree, information for other disease types are generated by DepMap
* OncotreePrimaryDisease: Primary disease of model. For cancer models, this field is from Oncotree, information for other disease types are generated by DepMap
* OncotreeSubtype: Subtype of model. For cancer models, this field is from Oncotree, information for other disease types are generated by DepMap
* OncotreeCode: For cancer models, this field is based on Oncotree. For some models for which no corresponding code exists, this field is left blank
* LegacyMolecularSubtype: Additional information about model molecular features
* LegacySubSubtype: Additional information about model subtype
* PatientMolecularSubtype: Aggregates information known about the patient tumor
* RRID: Cellosaurus ID
* Age: Age at time of sampling
* AgeCategory: Age category at time of sampling (Adult, Pediatric, Fetus, Unknown)
* Sex: Sex at time of sampling (Female, Male, Unknown)
* PatientRace: Patient/clinical indicated race (not derived)
* PrimaryOrMetastasis: Site of the primary tumor where cancer originated from (Primary, Metastatic, Recurrance, Other, Unknown)
* SampleCollectionSite: Site of tissue sample collection
* SourceType: Indicates where model was onboarded from (Commerical, Academic lab, Other)
* SourceDetail: Details on where model was onboarded from
* CatalogNumber: Catalog number of cell model, if commercial
* PatientTreatmentStatus: Indicates if sample was collected before, during, or after the patient's cancer treatment (Pre-treatment, Active treatment, Post-treatment, Unknown)
* PatientTreatmentType: Type of treatment patient received prior to, or at the time of, sampling (e.g. chemotherapy, immunotherapy, etc.), if known
* PatientTreatmentDetails: Details about patient treatment
* Stage: Stage of patient tumor
* StagingSystem: Classification system used to categorize disease stage (e.g. AJCC Pathologic Stage), if known
* PatientTumorGrade: Grade (or other marker of proliferation) of the patient tumor, if known
* PatientTreatmentResponse: Any response to treatment, if known
* GrowthPattern: Format model onboarded in (Adherent, Suspension, Organoid, Neurosphere, Neurosphere 2D, Unknown)
* OnboardedMedia: Description of onboarding media
* FormulationID: The unique identifier of the onboarding media
* PlateCoating: Coating on plate model onboarded in (Laminin, Matrigel, Collagen, None)
* EngineeredModel: Indicates if model was engineered (genetic knockout, genetic knock down, cultured to resistance, other)
* TissueOrigin: Indicates tissue model was derived from (Human, Mouse, Other)
* ModelDerivationMaterial: Indicates what material a model was derived from (Fresh tissue, PDX, Other)
* PublicComments: Comments released to portals
* CCLEName: CCLE name for the cell line
* HCMIID: Identifier models available through the Human Cancer Models Initiative (HCMI)
* WTSIMasterCellID: WTSI ID
* SangerModelID: Sanger ID
* COSMICID: Cosmic ID
* DateSharedIndbGaP: Date data became available in dbGaP

_Sources_
Broad Institute
Release Citation
Current DepMap Release data, including CRISPR Screens, PRISM Drug Screens, Copy Number, Mutation, Expression, and Fusions
DepMap, Broad (2024). DepMap 24Q2 Public. Figshare+. Dataset. https://doi.org/10.25452/figshare.plus.25880521.v1


### Gene expression
Navigate to https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=currentRelease
Click "Expression" tab
Download second file, named OmicsExpressionProteinCodingGenesTPMLogp1BatchCorrected.csv

_Description_
* Gene expression TPM values of the protein coding genes for DepMap cell lines.
* Values are inferred from RNA-seq data using RSEM (stranded or unstranded mode, depending on each sample's sequencing protocol) and are reported after log2 transformation, using a pseudo-count of 1; log2(TPM+1).
* To see if a sample was run using the stranded or unstranded protocol, please refer to OmicsProfiles and OmicsDefaultModelProfiles.
* Batch-corrected for strandedness using ComBat https://academic.oup.com/nargab/article/2/3/lqaa078/5909519.
* Additional RNA-seq-based expression measurements are available for download as part of the full DepMap Data Release.
* More information on the DepMap Omics processing pipeline is available at https://github.com/broadinstitute/depmap_omics.

_Sources_
Broad Institute
Release Citation
Current DepMap Release data, including CRISPR Screens, PRISM Drug Screens, Copy Number, Mutation, Expression, and Fusions
DepMap, Broad (2024). DepMap 24Q2 Public. Figshare+. Dataset. https://doi.org/10.25452/figshare.plus.25880521.v1


### CRISPR Screens
Navigate to https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=currentRelease
Click "CRISPR Screen" tab
Download second file, named CRISPRGeneEffect.csv

_Description_
Post-Chronos
Gene effect estimates for all models, integrated using Chronos. Copy number corrected, scaled, and screen quality corrected.
Rows: ModelID
Columns: Gene

_Sources_
Broad Institute
Release Citation
Current DepMap Release data, including CRISPR Screens, PRISM Drug Screens, Copy Number, Mutation, Expression, and Fusions
DepMap, Broad (2024). DepMap 24Q2 Public. Figshare+. Dataset. https://doi.org/10.25452/figshare.plus.25880521.v1


### Drug screens
Navigate to https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=overview
Click "Drug Screens/Repurposing (Broad)"
Download Repurposing_Public_24Q2_Extended_Primary_Data_Matrix.csv

_PRISM Repurposing Public 24Q2 Files_
This data release contains two most recent PRISM Repurposing screens: Repurposing-1M and Repurposing-300. All Repurposing-1M [REP1M] and Repurposing-300 [REP300] compounds (1514 = 1280 REP1M + 234 REP300) were screened in the PRISM assay at a dose of 2.5 μM with a 5-day treatment against 906 cancer cell lines (859 of them passed quality checks -QC- for all tested compound with two high quality replicates). Two PRISM cell line collections were used in the assay: PR500A, which includes only adherent cell lines, and PR500B, which has adherent and suspension cell lines. Together, these PRISM cell line collections form the PR1000 cell line collection. All compounds were run in triplicate, and each plate contained positive (Bortezomib, 20μM) and negative (DMSO) controls. The screen can be considered an extension of the PRISM Repurposing Primary Screen, with PR500A mainly covering the existing cell line panel, while PR500B extends the cell line collection with new subtypes and lineages. For the assay details, please refer to Corsello et al., 2020 (doi.org/10.1038/s43018-019-0018-6) and https://www.theprismlab.org.

_Description_
The final LFC values in Repurposing_Public_24Q2_LFC_collapsed.csv table are cast into a matrix with rows corresponding to individual treatments and columns are depmap_id's. This final matrix also contains the compounds from the original PRISM Repurposing Primary screen for convenience. Please use Repurposing_Public_24Q2_Extended_Primary_Compound_List.csv to get the meta-data for each row.

_Sources_
Broad Institute
Release Citation
PRISM Repurposing Public 24Q2
DepMap, Broad; Kocak, Mustafa (2024). Repurposing Public 24Q2. figshare. Dataset. https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.25917643.v1

**Accompanying drug information**
Navigate to https://depmap.org/portal/data_page/?tab=overview
Click "All Data"
File set: "PRISM Repurposing Public 24Q2"
Download Repurposing_Public_24Q2_Extended_Primary_Compound_List.csv

_Description_
Metadata for the perturbations represented by each row of Repurposing_Public_24Q2_Extended_Primary_Data_Matrix.csv. Columns of this table are given below:
* IDs: Unique identifier to join with the rows of Repurposing_Public_24Q2_Extended_Primary_Data_Matrix.csv
* screen: Identifier for in which Repurposing screen this particular profile is created.
* dose: Dose of the treatment (in uM).
* Drug.Name: Human read-able name for the drug.
* repurposing_target: Annotated target of the drug.
* MOA: Annotated mechanism of action for the drug.
* Synonyms: Known synonyms of the drug name.
